# Are these all projects?

Recently, I have been facing some set backs and changes on in my career, not only I am working on popular recipes, but I am also training myself to be data oriented, that to make judge on which dish and flavours according to the market. Following the crowd might not be a bad idea at all, at least this is what I have learnt so far at this job, people want comforting, affordable food, and served quickly, creativity from the chef isn't the key to the success of a brand but re-order rate.

As I am moving away from day-to-day cooking, I understand that I am lacking of the project management skill. From experience working in the kitchen, seasonal promotions are like clockworks, so as the menu and dishes but what a cook doesn't understand there are projects more than seasonal. For cooks with a restaurant background, actively participating or develope a campaign is something new to me, much of the time chefs and cooks are at the end of the process, we just come up with a dish(es) and take  pictures then launch and serve, I never get see the process of how campaign were developed, but at this work the learn curve was suddenly here, I have to understand my position no longer a cook or a chef but a manager overseeing culinary side of the business, and my work involve lots of project management, because all of them are projects.

### New, something "new" as a routine

The year and a half at this job thought me that a new launch of a concept, new operator, new kitchen, a new campaign, a revamp they are all part of the same cycle, they are all projects, there is the deadline, the stakeholder management, the timeline, the goal, the KPIs, the OKRs. I, no longer just looking at the recipes and develope it, but making sure I allocate the right people, giving the right guidance, head to right direction, and reach the goal together, but I didn't understand my position until this very last month of job, which I believe to be a great transition in my career.

Project management is something new to me, as cook I have my time management but cooks and chefs our time management will be a few weeks or fews days or 5 minutes, we make lots of quick decision in short amount of time, and most in a reactive manner, as for me I still have this mindset, therefore I am facing this time management issues with the current projects. The other problem that I face is delegating my work, like many cooks I have a hard time let go of my responsibility, and I understand when I have those abilities, no one can take away from me, but I do need to empower subordinate and let them feel they can be in-charge no in reactive but proactive manner, people will be more happy when they see they have time to grow, when I was young I was seeking for those opportunities, I believe it is my responsibility to let people grow under my management.

## Managing is hard

Managing is not an easy task, I never understand that until I am in a managing role myself, there are many decision needs to be make, those decisions are not 1g or 3g of salt, those decisions have long term affects with the team, those decision will determine how can us as a team to reach the goal. Craftsmanship is difficult because ones wants eager to improve, Management is difficult because ones eager to improve as a group.
